Please, God...
Not this time.
♪ Broken windows and empty hallways
♪ A pale, dead moon in the sky
streaked with grey
♪ Human kindness is overflowing
♪ And I think it's going to rain today ♪
In the name of the Father,
and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.
Grace of our Lord Jesus Christ
and the love of God
and the communion of
the Holy Spirit be with you all.
We have some...
We have some guests here today.
Parents with children who are making
their first holy communion next week,
so I'm just gonna stop
and explain things at times.
That might make the mass a little longer
but hopefully more enjoyable.
Brothers and sisters,
let us acknowledge our sins.
And so prepare ourselves to celebrate
the sacred mistress.
I confess to Almighty God...
ALL: And to you,
my brothers and sisters,
that I have greatly sinned.
MICHAEL: And it's now that
God changes the bread
into the body of Christ
and the wine into his blood.
There's gonna be a bell
that will ring here,
and that dates back from old days,
where everything was in Latin
and no one knew what was going on,
so the bell meant this bit's important.
-[BELL RINGS]
-[CHUCKLES]
For, on the night He was betrayed,
He himself took bread
and, giving you thanks,
He said the blessing,
broke the bread,
and gave it to his disciples saying,
"Take this, all of you,
"and eat of it.
"For this is my body which
will be given up for you."
[BELL RINGS]
In the similar way,
when supper was ended,
He took the chalice,
and, giving you thanks,
He said the blessing
and gave the chalice
to his disciples saying,
"Take this, all of you,
"and drink of it.
"For this is the chalice of my blood."
You dirty, filthy beast! You horror!
The blood...
WOMAN: Have you got no shame?
"The blood..."
Have you got no bloody shame!
"Of the new and the eternal covenant
"which will be poured out for you."
You dirty, filthy beast!
"Do this in memory of me."
[BELL RINGS]
MICHAEL: No, that's all gone, thank God.
I mean, the idea of a child
-of nine having anything to confess...
-[MOBILE RINGING]
Let alone a list of things.
Well, I find that a bit...
-I find that a bit harsh...
-[RINGING CONTINUES]
Um...
Now, what we do now
is a general absolution
at the start of the mass, and that
includes everyone, of course.
-Not just the children, everyone...
-[MOBILE RINGING]
The children, everyone.
-I'm sorry.
-It's all right.
-Obviously got a lot on your plate.
-Yeah, I have.
I'm sorry, I'm not playing
the naughty little school girl saying
I have got a lot on my plate.
I was, um...
I wasn't expecting this.
I wasn't expecting an hour-long mass
before the meeting.
So, I'm really sorry, darling.
-I run a shop, I'm...
-MICHAEL: Yeah.
I'm 40 minutes late, I wasn't there,
the boss is now gonna open it up
and I'm gonna be in the shit!
MICHAEL: Well, uh...
-I'm sorry, I'm not swearing...
-Is, uh, is your mum at home?
-What?
-[MOBILE RINGS]
It your mum in now? You could get off
and we could drop Lisa.
-It's Lisa. Is it Lisa?
-Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah, we could drop Lisa.
-I've come with Ms Pickering and...
-Yeah?
-Are you gonna be all right?
-Yeah.
I'm sorry, love. I'm really sorry.
-All right, don't worry. See you.
-I'm really, really sorry!
Okay.
It's Christina Fitzsimmons here, Jean,
I'm returning your call.
Um...
I couldn't talk in church,
it's a long story.
I'll explain when I get there, I should
be about 10 minutes, all right?
Thanks. Bye.
I'm sorry, Jean.
I'm really, really sorry!
Our Lisa's taking the first
communion next week.
I know you don't like hearing
about other people's kids, but anyway.
[SIGHS] Oh, the meeting
was supposed to be at 9:00 a.m.,
but what they didn't tell me
is there was gonna be an hour-long
mass before that even started.
-I'm so, so sorry I'm late.
-What's that?
-It's an IOU.
-60 quid?
Yeah.
But what's a 60 quid IOU
doing in one of our tills?
-I borrowed 60 quid.
-No, no, no, you took 60 quid.
-No, I did not...
-You stole 60 quid.
-I didn't...
-You're a thief.
I'm not a thief, Jean.
Because a thief doesn't leave
an IOU note saying that
I owe you 60 quid, does he?
-Would you take 10 grand then?
-No!
You wouldn't take 10 grand
and sign a note saying,
"I owe you 10 grand,"
that'd be theft, yeah?
-Yeah, of course it would...
-Then why isn't that theft?
Because, Jean, it's 60 quid,
and I can pay back 60 quid.
I couldn't pay back 10 grand, could I?
-Show me, then.
-Show you what?
-Show me the 60 quid.
-I haven't got 60 quid.
Then when were you thinking
of paying it back?
Pay day. I'm sorry,
if you've heard this before,
but I've got three kids to feed, Jean.
And the shitty money that you pay,
a pound an hour above
the minimum wage, won't cover that,
which is why I took 60 quid.
In fact, I didn't take 60 quid,
I borrowed 60 quid.
-You're sacked.
-What?
You heard me, you're sacked.
Now, piss off before I phone the police.
You just said yourself
it's shitty money,
so sod off and find summat better.
Right, well, you owe me, um...
You owe me two weeks...
-Two weeks wages.
-Oh, you'll get them in due course.
No, I need it now, I'm skint.
Oh, you're half way through the month
and you're skint already?
-Yeah, I am.
-And what were you gonna do?
-Take even more out of my till?
-Yeah, I was,
because half the staff are doing it,
they're all borrowing money
from the till
because the money you pay is shite.
Well, then, at the risk
of repeating myself,
you sod off and find summat better.
You and your three bleeding kids.
You...
[GRUNTS]
Get off me!
[VIDEO GAME MUSIC PLAYS]
-[BOTH GRUNTING]
-CHRISTINA: Get off me!
[INAUDIBLE CHATTERING]
WOMAN: What are you doing here?
Oh, love, I'm sorry, I forgot that
he was bringing you home.
-What's happened?
-Lisa, no... Lis!
Lisa!
I've, um...
I had a barney with the area manager
after she sacked me.
-Sacked you?
-What, for being late?
Yeah. Well, no, not quite, really.
If I hadn't been late,
she wouldn't have opened up
and found an IOU for 60 quid.
So, yeah, basically, for being late.
-I'm sorry.
-Thanks.
Why do people go to mass, Father?
-Oh, lots of reasons.
-But they get something out of it, yeah?
-Yeah.
-Well, I got this and this
and I got the sack. If I go tomorrow
what am I gonna get, cystitis?
MICHAEL: See you, boys.
If there's anything I can do...
-[KNOCKS ON DOOR]
-[SIGHS] Oh, come on, Lisa.
All right, I'll let you get on.
Thanks, Father.
Lisa, will you move away from the door?
I'm gonna come in
and I don't wanna hurt you,
so just move away
from the door, please. Lisa...
You see this?
That's all gonna be gone
by the time it's your communion.
It'll all be gone.
Look at me.
I'll be all gorgeous again.
Come here.
You know that...
You know that lovely dress that
you wanted, the one with the veil?
I'm gonna get you that.
It's too much.
No, it's not.
It's not, I'm gonna get it for you.
[SIGHS] Nothing's too
much for you, is it?
MAN: I'm going to read
you a poem about a hawk.
You will take it home
and you'll write about it.
Whoever writes the best composition
wins this,
which is also about a hawk.
"I caught this morning,
morning's minion,
"kingdom of daylight's dauphin.
"Dapple-dawn-drawn falcon,
"in his riding of the rolling level
underneath him, steady air
"and striding high there.
"How he rung upon the rein
of a wimpling wing
"in his ecstasy.
"Then, off.
"Off forth on swing,
"as a skate's heel sweeps smooth
"on a bow-bend.
"My heart in hiding stirred
"for a bird, the achieve of,
"the mastery of the thing.
"And the fire that breaks
from thee, then
"a billion times told lovelier,
"more dangerous, O my chevalier."
YOUNG MICHAEL: "I like hawk.
I caught this morning.
"It's as if you've caught hold of
a dove lark.
"And it's taking us with it,
swooping and soaring.
"And the M's are good too.
Morning, mornings, minion.
"Because M is a shape of a bird.
"And awning, awnings,
and then you're trailing after it.
"And that could be us hanging on.
[BANGS]
"And then it drops so fast,
you can't slow it down.
"Because it's quicker than down,
so has to be done.
"And you can't pick words
beginning with Ds, it takes effort,
"noisy effort the hawk is making
to climb back up there."
Father...
Who helped you?
[SMACK]
YOUNG MICHAEL: It's not fair.
[INDISTINCT VOICE OVER SPEAKER]
-So, we do it, yeah?
-Yeah.
We draw up a roster.
Beth will still do her two nights,
I'll do my one.
That leaves four nights between
the seven of you.
-Phil won't do one.
-He will.
He didn't know Mum was dying,
but he knows now and he will.
Just when you need a miracle,
it happens.
Works out to just over once a fortnight.
That's nothing.
-You were second...
-Second, third, fourth,
there's nothing in it, you prick.
How can you go for me
when it's your lead?
Didn't stop you going for me
two hands ago,
you devious little shit.
It was your blind two hands ago!
You were practically level
two hands ago, you crying git.
I was not practically level!
I was 62 behind.
So, who's gonna do it?
-What's up with you?
-She's dying!
She can't be left alone overnight.
Beth and Miss can't do it all on their
own, so we'll have to do our bit, yeah?
Yeah, all right, so who's
gonna organise that?
-You!
-Oh, no. Not me.
62, 62...
Yep. I bloody told you.
All right, I'm going.
What about us?
I don't know, you have to have a 300
or summat.
-[GROANS] Bloody hell.
-300 is shite.
I'm sorry about that.
-Hey!
-Hi.
How are ya?
-How's she been?
-Not bad.
Michael's here, Mum.
WOMAN: Hiya, son.
Hiya, Mum.
I'll be up in a minute.
-She made me do her hair for you.
-Oh.
-Tell her it looks nice.
-I will.
-Bye, Mum.
-Bye, love.
-Bye.
-I'll see you later.
-See you later.
Yeah.
-How are you, Mum?
-How are you, son?
MICHAEL: I'm great.
You?
I'm great, too.
Your hair looks nice.
Beth did it.
It's lovely.
ELLA FITZGERALD:
♪ Stars shining bright above you
♪ Night breezes seem to whisper
I love you
♪ Birds singing in the sycamore tree
♪ Dream a little dream of me
♪ Say nighty-night and kiss me
♪ Just hold me tight
and tell me you'll miss me
♪ While I'm alone and blue as can be
♪ Dream a little dream of me
LOUIS ARMSTRONG:
♪ Stars fading but I linger on, dear
ELLA: ♪ Oh, how you linger on
LOUIS: ♪ Still craving your kiss
ELLA: ♪ How you crave my kiss
LOUIS: ♪ Now I'm longing
to linger till dawn, dear
♪ Just saying this
ELLA: ♪ Give me a little kiss
♪ Sweet dreams till sunbeams find you
♪ Sweet dreams that leave
all worries behind you ♪
-Right, how many 12s are in 60?
-I'm not having it.
-Yes, you are.
-It's black.
-[TV BLARING]
-It's fine. Oh, my God.
-Can you turn that down?
-Five!
-Five's right.
-I'll just have some porridge.
No, you're gonna have that.
Will you turn that down?
Five miles at 30 miles an hour.
-Right. Mum, have you got any money?
-Uh, 15 quid and some coppers?
You're gonna have to say that you
forgotten your dinner money, right?
-Eat it.
-Can't he say it?
No, he can't say it.
-Five into 30?
-Six.
-That's right. And then six into 60?
-Ten.
Simple!
-Will you lend us it?
-Of course.
-Will you give me a letter?
-Saying what,
that you forgot your dinner money
but you've remembered to bring
a letter saying that you've forgotten
it? I think they might somehow...
Ow!
[SCHOOL BELL RINGING]
Mrs Fitzsimmons.
CLAIRE: Hi.
WOMAN: We've got your form up
on screen, Mrs Fitzsimmons.
CLAIRE: Right.
Have you claimed job-seeker's
allowance before?
No, I've worked since I left school.
Crap jobs, but I've always worked.
And you know it's not for me to decide
on the merits of your claim?
-Yeah, they explained that.
-Good.
Nevertheless, you've put
down here you resigned?
Yeah.
Well, that's making
yourself intentionally
unemployed, Mrs Fitzsimmons,
which usually means
you can't claim for 13 weeks.
-13 weeks?
-Yeah.
I was sacked.
-You were sacked?
-Yeah.
Then why did you put you resigned?
Um...
'Cause I was ashamed of being sacked.
Why were you sacked?
Just a misunderstanding.
We do check with
the employer, Mrs Fitzsimmons.
I borrowed some money out of the till.
She'll say that it was theft,
the area manager, but it wasn't,
I was gonna put it back.
I see.
-Anything else?
-Yeah, I punched her.
That's not why I was sacked 'cause...
Technically, I was already sacked,
-when I punched her.
-I see.
That's, um,
as bad as resigning, yeah?
People might think it worse,
Mrs Fitzsimmons,
but the penalty might well
be the same. 13 weeks.
But we'll notify you of that by letter.
I've got three kids.
-I'm sorry.
-There must be something I can claim.
Social security, something?
I'm afraid not.
Is there a Mr Fitzsimmons?
Yeah, but he hasn't given a penny since
the day I threw him out.
-Well, maybe you should...
-No, there's no chance of that.
Do you know anyone else who could
lend you some money?
-Bono, McCartney, Elton John...
-Personally?
-I mean, brother, sister...
-I don't know anyone who isn't skint.
I've got three kids and no money.
There must be something
I can claim to feed my kids.
There might be the possibility of
of an emergency loan,
but we'd consider that only
when you've made genuine attempts
to borrow the money yourself.
All right, and who decides
what's genuine?
Well, obviously, a successful attempt
must've been genuine.
But I wouldn't need the money
then, would I?
No.
-Sorry I'm late.
-It's okay.
Next is the first holy communion.
Nothing but praise for last year's,
Pauline, thanks very much.
So, if you're prepared
to take it on again?
Yeah. Yeah.
In that case, same again
this time, yes?
-Yeah. Just... Just one thing.
-Yes, Father?
Um, it's just the cost with that.
The cost?
Yes. I know last year,
um, a few families go
into debt with everything.
You know, the dress, the party,
all the bits and pieces and that...
I just think this year
there'll be more doing it.
Well, the ceremony itself
costs nothing, Father.
We ask them every year
to keep it simple,
and they just get more and more...
-Vulgar.
-Mmm-hmm.
But there's one thing
we could ask them to do.
Yeah?
We could ask them to do
it in their school uniform.
No suits, no fancy frocks.
Pauline?
Would people want that?
Yeah, perhaps.
But it would look like an ordinary mass.
There'll be nothing
you could do to make
it any different from...
Well...
Father, you say fancy frocks,
but they're not just fancy,
are they? They're white.
-They're symbols of purity...
-Oh, they're 8 years old.
Dress them in rags,
they'd still be pure.
Look, I'm not criticising you
in any way whatsoever, Ms Pickering.
I just think people
are taking on years of debt
for a ceremony lasting
less than an hour.
I've got to go, I'm afraid. You know...
I thought I was helping
people celebrate
a blessed sacrament,
but it seems I was wrong.
It seems I've just been
driving people deeper
and deeper into poverty and despair.
-No, you aren't...
-I've got to go, I've got marking to do.
[SIGHS]
-[KNOCKING ON DOOR]
-That's Mariella.
Mariella?
-She's taking you out.
-LISA: I'll get it.
[SCOFFS] Mum, I can't go
out looking like this.
She's taking you out.
[LAUGHING]
-Have you tried Tom?
-Oh, yeah.
And?
-And he says he's skint.
-Do you believe him?
You can't half pick 'em.
-Thanks.
-You're welcome.
So, there's this banana and a vibrator,
and they're in the top drawer,
and the banana turns around and says,
"Well, I don't know what you're shaking
for, she's going to eat me."
[AUDIENCE LAUGHING]
MAN: And then my missus, she's in front
of the mirror and she says,
"I think I'd like me boobs
to be a bit bigger."
I said, "Right, once or twice a day,
get a bit of tissue paper
"and give 'em both a good wipe
with it."
She says, "How's that
gonna make them bigger?"
I said, "Well, it worked on
your ass, innit?"
[AUDIENCE LAUGHING]
MAN: Oh, here she comes.
What a beauty. Hello, love.
-What a gorgeous outfit that is.
-Thanks very much.
MAN: You're welcome.
Hey, you two must be sisters.
What's the matter,
couldn't Cinderella make it?
[MAN LAUGHING]
Do you want one of these?
Oh, yeah, I thought it was a black eye.
I didn't notice that, love,
I thought I was talking to a panda.
You can't beat a good laugh.
It's gotta be
the best medicine in the world, innit?
Eh? Unless you're diabetic,
then insulin's fairly high on the list.
Never thought I'd make meself
laugh with that one, that's dangerous.
Oh, apart from one.
Hello, love, are you enjoying yourself?
Well, tell your face that.
What are you drinking? Night nurse?
♪ When your head is light
from too much wine
♪ It's easy to cross the line
♪ When the moon is bright
and the music's cool
♪ It's easy to become a fool
♪ I've made a list of things not to do
♪ To stop me from loving you
♪ Stay away from stars
♪ Stop walking in the rain ♪
[VOICES ECHOING]
[WOMAN CRYING AND SCREAMING]
[WHISTLE BLOWING]
MAN 1: Watch it! You're getting kicked.
-MAN 2: Go, John.
-[MEN CHEERING]
Great goal, John.
Skin that fat bastard, Allen! Skin him!
Come on, lads! Get it over!
Get it over, Eric.
Pass it on to him!
Right, come on, now!
Come on. Go on!
-[ALL CHEERING]
-[WHISTLE BLOWING]
Yes!
That's what you get
when you press, right?
Good goal.
There he is!
[WHISTLE BLOWING]
Hey, you, get on.
Ref, ref, stop, ref!
Can't stop a man who runs off.
He's run off because we're shoving him!
No chance.
We told him he was coming off,
so he's run off.
Would this man lie?
Would a man like this lie?
-Ref! Ref!
-[BELL RINGS]
Good morning.
[CHILDREN SHOUTING INDISTINCTIVELY]
If you wouldn't make
a bit of palaver and
eat your burnt toast,
it wouldn't happen, would it?
MICHAEL: Good morning,
good morning.
CHRISTINA: Good morning. Hey, you.
-In the wars again?
-What?
Get your hand caught in the till?
[CHUCKLES]
It's a joke.
Sorry.
Mrs Evans, she's usually on gate.
Oh, I'm standing in.
She won't be in until mid-morning.
Why, is there a problem?
He's got no dinner money
and he's not going to have it
for the rest of the week, and...
He's embarrassed about it, so...
I said that I'd tell her.
Oh, I could tell her if you want.
-Would you?
-Yeah, no problem.
-Did you hear that?
-Yeah.
-And what do you say?
-Thank you, Father.
Oh, you're welcome.
Thank you.
Anything else I can do?
You could lend me 1,000 pounds?
I'll pay you back ten quid a week
for the next 200 years.
Can I come and see you sometime?
Erm, why?
Cos I think you're in pain.
No. Real pain.
I'm just skint, Father.
[SIGHS]
Can you look into this, please?
It's company policy.
We can only pay the melt-down price.
Nine carat.
Can't give them away.
Common occurrence, is it,
women flogging their rings?
Yeah.
How much?
30.
No, I'm selling them, not pawning.
It's the same thing.
[SIGHS]
Emerald?
Yeah.
Blame Frankie for that.
-Sorry?
-Dettori.
Came third in the 2005 derby.
If he'd had come first,
I'd have got diamond.
All right.
All right, so how much?
I can go to 70.
70 and 30, that's 100 in total.
No, 150.
We don't bargain, I'm sorry.
-100 and that's it.
-Right, well...
Well, you can take your 100
and shove it up your hole.
Shit.
Oh.
[FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING]
Don't gloat.
I won't.
Oh, my God.
You knew I was coming back, didn't you?
-Yeah.
-How?
How did you know I'd come back?
You didn't put the ring back on.
The ones who tell me
to shove it up my hole
as they're putting the ring back on,
they don't come back.
The others do.
I've never had
a millionaire in here, love.
If you're coming here,
you're skint and angry.
But there's no politicians here,
so they give it to me.
And I don't think that's fair, love,
because I'm skint, too.
And though I'd like
to give everyone a break,
I can't because I'll get sacked.
And even though it's a shitty job
that gives me nothing but grief,
it's still a job and I need it.
Thank you.
All right.
Thanks.
Just a minute, all right?
-[DOOR OPENS]
-CHRISTINA: Hi, Mum.
[CHRISTINA SIGHS]
Mum?
Mum!
Mum.
Mum...
Oh, no, Mum.
Mum?
No.
Oh...
[SOBBING] Oh, no.
[PHONE BEEPS]
Are you still getting the flashbacks?
Yeah.
Are they just as frequent?
More.
I've done one or two decent things
in my life, Peter,
I really have,
but I never flash back to them.
[MOBILE RINGING]
It's on answer.
MICHAEL:
You've reached father Michael Kerrigan.
I can't get to the phone at the moment.
If you'd like to leave a message
and your phone number,
I'll get back to you
as soon as possible.
Thanks.
Help.
[PHONE BEEPS]
I hate that.
A sane priest would assume
it wasn't important,
otherwise, they'd have left a message,
but I can't do that.
I assume they didn't leave a message
because it was too important,
too heart-breaking, too gut-wrenching
to speak to a bloody answering machine.
[PHONE BEEPS]
I'm a shitty priest, I am,
to expect them to do so.
[CLEARS THROAT]
[PHONE RINGING]
[PHONE BEEPS]
Hello?
MICHAEL: [ON PHONE] Hi, there.
It's father Michael Kerrigan here.
You rang me just now.
Yeah, Father.
I dialled the wrong number.
[PHONE BEEPS]
[SIGHS]
[SOBBING]
[SNIFFLES]
Yeah, I thought that Nan
was picking them up,
and she thought
that I was picking them up.
So, I'll be there
in two minutes, all right?
Come here. I want hugs.
I want big hugs.
[EXCLAIMS]
[SNIFFLES]
Hey.
-What's up?
-Nothing.
Why're you crying?
I'm not. I just...
I just want big hugs.
MICHAEL: Hello, Jean.
I had a fight.
Anyone I know?
Yeah.
Rosie Lunt's daughter.
Right.
I told Steven it was over work,
but it weren't really.
I, erm...
I found out that it's my fault
that we can't have kids.
I think he always knew
but just didn't say anything.
It shows how good of a man he is.
How good a father he'd have been.
It just makes it all the more...
Painful.
Shall I let you into a secret?
Yeah.
I'm not the Virgin Mary's biggest fan.
-No?
-No.
I think, a few hundred years ago,
a cardinal went to see the Pope
and he said, "Have you seen what
this guy Christ actually said?"
And the Pope walks up to him and goes,
"Don't start talking about his mother.
She said nothing."
[CHUCKLES]
She did find it easy, though,
didn't she?
Ridiculously easy to get pregnant.
So, I think this is her department,
don't you?
Yeah.
Shall we pray to her?
Yeah, please.
BOTH: Hail Mary, full of grace,
the Lord is with thee.
Blessed art thou amongst women,
and blessed is the fruit
of thy womb, Jesus.
Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners,
now and at the hour of our death.
Amen.
Right, now, listen.
I need to tell you something
very important.
Your nana's ill and she's in bed,
and you're not to go up to her
until I say so, all right?
Promise me.
ALL: Okay, okay.
She needs peace.
-Right?
-LISA: Right.
No.
[SCREECHES]
What? I just told you that, didn't I?
I don't know how much
is going to go in there.
It could be half a month's wages.
I could be nothing. Put that down.
Can you get off that?
No, but whatever it is,
it's not going to be enough
to cover the direct debit
and then you're going to charge me
for it, aren't you?
-And I don't want you to do that.
-They're wet.
Yeah? Well, hopefully, in the future
you'll remember
to take them out of the bag
and put them in the dirty washing,
won't you?
Sorry, I'm trying to get them...
-They're wet.
-The kids ready for school.
Erm, yes, I know they're wet.
JIMMY: I can't go to school
with these shorts wet.
CHRISTINA: Excuse me. Sorry, I'm...
You're just gonna have to wear them wet,
aren't you?
JIMMY: I can't wear them wet.
Sorry, I'll have to call you back.
-JIMMY: Mum!
-What are you doing?
Get down here.
What do you think you're doing?
Taking Grandma a cup of tea.
But I told you not to go in there,
didn't I?
Her head's banging
and she needs peace and quiet.
Absolute peace and quiet.
Right.
Hey.
Okay, it's not your fault.
Go on, go in there.
CHRISTINA: Thirteen weeks
till I can claim?
-Yes.
-Sorry. I'm...
Well, you said I might be able
to get a loan.
Well, it's unlikely, I'm afraid.
-So, if you just...
-All right, so what do I do?
We'll find you a job,
if you just take...
I'm a betting shop manager
who stole from her employer.
What kind of chance does that give me?
Well, there are other jobs.
Oh, yeah, I sold 'em.
You clocked 'em last time.
I sold 'em. I got 100 quid.
And I didn't piss it up a wall
or go down the bingo.
I filled the fridge with it.
What do I do?
Well, maybe there are other things
that you could sell.
Hiya. You all right?
Hi, Father.
-Is your mum in?
-Yeah.
-Can I see her?
-She's sick.
-I know.
-You know?
Yeah, she phoned me.
She said she couldn't make the meeting
so I thought I'd bring it all 'round.
Em, yeah, well, I'll give it to her.
There's stuff I said we'd talk about.
No, she's, she's... Too sick for that.
I'm her priest.
I'm used to seeing sick people,
dead ones, even.
[CHUCKLES]
[CHUCKLES] Sorry.
All right.
Well, then, I'll tell her you called.
Well...
I brought you these.
What are they?
Eh, they're vouchers for the food bank.
We all need a bit of help now and again.
Will you... Will you go, Father?
It's not what you imagine, Christina...
-Please. Father, will you...
-They judge no one...
Will you just go?
Okay.
If you change your mind...
I won't change my mind.
-You tell your mum I called in, yeah?
-Yeah.
She'll be really pleased you called.
Thanks.
Sorry I've upset you.
All right.
-[VACUUM CLEANER WHIRRING]
-[KNOCKING AT DOOR]
[KNOCKING CONTINUES]
Didn't know you'd be home.
I didn't get you a cake.
Where's Mum?
Out!
Where?
I don't know, she said...
It's Wednesday.
I always come around on a Wednesday.
Well, you know what she's like.
All right, you can have her cake.
[SPRAYING]
Did she go to the doctor's?
What?
[SHOUTING] Did she go to the doctor's?
Erm...
No.
She said she'd go this morning.
Why?
She's getting chest pains.
Why didn't you tell me?
You live under the same roof as her.
I thought you'd know.
Well, I didn't... I don't.
Can I go for the kids?
No.
Well, we usually pick them up,
me and Mum.
Yeah, well, erm...
I've got to be there
or Mum's got to be there, so...
All right, I'll go with you, then.
Is that a problem?
No.
They like it when I go for them.
Great.
Summat wrong?
No, not at all.
[SIGHS]
[CHUCKLES]
Come here, Trouble.
[GRUNTS] Gosh.
-Who's this for?
-Grandma.
She's been sick?
Erm...
[STAMMERS] A couple of days,
but she's all right now.
-What was it?
-Yeah?
Erm, just a bit of a cold.
We can't go in her room.
-What, she went to bed with it?
-Yeah.
A bit of a cold?
Yes, but she's all right now.
Yeah, all right.
All right. In you get.
Go on.
My coat.
Hey! Hey, where you going?
Wait, shh, what are you doing?
I'm taking this up to Nan.
Come on, I'll give it to her.
Go in there.
Mum's back?
Yeah.
What? She took the small one.
Mum's purse.
Where is she?
Upstairs.
All right, kids, we're, erm...
We're going to go and see Nan.
Can you guys stay here?
Stay here.
Hey, hey, hey!
Hey! She's dead.
Mum.
[SNIFFLES]
I just... I found her like that.
Well, not like that, but...
-Dead.
-[SOBS]
Did you get her a priest?
No.
Well, I guess she'd want a priest.
[SNIFFLES] You know what all that
meant to her.
You guys know that.
We can't call him yet.
Well, why not?
Because she gets her pension tomorrow.
What?
I'm skint, no...
No job, no dole, no nothing, erm...
I need her pension.
Oh, my God, you can't...
I've got three kids to feed.
That's why you lied to me
and said she was out.
Yeah.
You weren't even going to tell me.
Oh, my God.
Please. I don't want the kids to hear.
When did this happen?
-How long has she been like this?
-Mariella, please.
I don't want the kids to hear.
Three days.
You heartless,
scheming bitch.
I'm sorry.
Can you leave me with her, please?
Can you leave me alone with my mother?
Please.
I'm sorry.
[DOOR SHUTS]
You took her ring.
Yeah, but...
I didn't sell it.
Look, I didn't sell it.
I couldn't sell it.
Look, look here.
Please don't say anything, will you?
Please?
Will you? Please don't...
[FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING]
Who's that for?
My mum.
[FOOTSTEPS RECEDING]
Erm, yeah, I've come
to get my mum's pension.
All right, stick the card
in the machine, then.
It'll just ask you for its PIN.
How is she?
Yeah, she's not too good.
Is it her chest?
What?
She said last time...
Oh, erm...
[CARD MACHINE BEEPS]
Yeah.
Yeah, she's doing all right now.
Tell her I was asking.
Oh, I will.
-Thanks.
-Bye.
[PHONE BEEPS]
MICHAEL: [ON PHONE] Hi,
it's Father Michael Kerrigan here.
It's Christina Fitzsimmons,
Rosie's daughter.
She's...
Died suddenly, Father.
MICHAEL: Christina, I'm so sorry.
[KNOCKING AT DOOR]
I'm so sorry, Christina.
Thank you, Father.
I'll miss you, Rosie.
When did she die?
Between 10 o'clock last night
and 10 o'clock this morning, Father,
when I found her.
Would you mind if I light a candle?
No.
It's easy to forget that Christ is here,
giving us strength, easing our pain.
The candle reminds us of that fact.
She's been dead a few days, Christina.
That's not possible, Father.
I'm sorry, Christina, but...
Was it her pension?
I don't know what
you're talking about, Father.
Christina, we'll need a doctor
to certify death.
He'll know she's been dead for days.
He'll call the police.
The first thing they'll do is check
when her pension was last drawn.
When was that?
Did you know
that she was having chest pains?
Yeah.
Did you know she was having chest pains?
-Yes...
-Because I didn't.
Everyone else knew, but I didn't know.
When was her pension
last drawn, Christina?
-An hour ago.
-Oh, Christina.
-[SOBBING]
-Come here.
Am I going to go to prison, Father?
I don't know.
[CHRISTINA SOBBING]
It's all right.
-Will you join me in a prayer?
-[SOBBING]
[SNIFFLES]
[SOBBING]
I miss her.
BOTH: Our Father,
who art in heaven,
hallowed be thy name,
Thy kingdom come,
Thy will be done,
on Earth, as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread,
and forgive us our trespasses,
as we forgive those
who trespass against us.
And lead us not into temptation,
but deliver us from evil.
Amen.
[CHRISTINA SNIFFLES]
What now?
♪ Tell me what it's like in heaven
♪ I hope it's kinder
than it is down here
♪ With all the trials and tribulations
♪ All the worry and living in fear
♪ Hallelujah
♪ We might be bruised
♪ But we're not broken